Anthropology of religion – study of religious institutions in relation to other social institutions, and the comparison of religious beliefs and practices across cultures
Applied anthropology – application of the method and theory of anthropology to the analysis and solution of practical problems.
Archaeology – study of cultures via material remains and environmental data (Outline of archaeology)
Cultural anthropology – branch of anthropology focused on the study of cultural variation among humans, collecting data about the effect of global economic and political processes on local cultural realities.
Ethnobiology – scientific study of dynamic relationships between peoples, biota, and environments, from the distant past to the immediate present.
Ethnobotany – is the study of a region's plants and their practical uses through the traditional knowledge of a local culture and people.
Ethnography – systematic study of people and cultures.
Ethnology – branch of anthropology that compares and analyzes the origins, distribution, technology, religion, language, and social structure of the ethnic, racial, and/or national divisions of humanity.
Ethnopoetics – method of recording text versions of oral poetry or narrative performances (i.e., verbal lore) that uses poetic lines, verses, and stanzas (instead of prose paragraphs) to capture the formal, poetic performance elements which would otherwise be lost in the written texts.
Evolutionary anthropology – interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominids and non-hominid primates.
Experimental archaeology – Experimental archaeology employs a number of different methods, techniques, analyses, and approaches in order to generate and test hypotheses, based upon archaeological source material, like ancient structures or artifacts.
Historical archaeology – form of archaeology dealing with topics that are already attested in written records.
Linguistic anthropology – is the interdisciplinary study of how language influences social life.
Medical anthropology – interdisciplinary field which studies "human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation".
Physical anthropology – study of the physical development of the human species.
Psychological anthropology – interdisciplinary subfield of anthropology that studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes.
Zooarchaeology – study of faunal remains.
Anthrozoology – study of human-animal interaction.