Anesthesiology – practice of medicine dedicated to the relief of pain and total care of the surgical patient before, during and after surgery.
Cardiology – branch of medicine that deals with disorders of the heart and the blood vessels.
Critical care medicine – focuses on life support and the intensive care of the seriously ill.
Dentistry – branch of medicine that deals with treatment of diseases in the oral cavity
Dermatology – branch of medicine that deals with the skin, hair, and nails.
Emergency medicine – focuses on care provided in the emergency department
Endocrinology – branch of medicine that deals with disorders of the endocrine system.
Epidemiology – study of cause and prevalence of diseases and programs to contain them
First aid – assistance given to any person suffering a sudden illness or injury, with care provided to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, and/or promote recovery. It includes initial intervention in a serious condition prior to professional medical help being available, such as performing CPR while awaiting an ambulance, as well as the complete treatment of minor conditions, such as applying a plaster to a cut.
Gastroenterology – branch of medicine that deals with the study and care of the digestive system.
General practice (often called family medicine) is a branch of medicine that specializes in primary care.
Geriatrics – branch of medicine that deals with the general health and well-being of the elderly.
Gynaecology – diagnosis and treatment of the female reproductive system
Hematology – branch of medicine that deals with the blood and the circulatory system.
Hepatology – branch of medicine that deals with the liver, gallbladder and the biliary system.
Infectious disease – branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and management of infectious disease, especially for complex cases and immunocompromised patients.
Internal medicine – involved with adult diseases
Neurology – branch of medicine that deals with the brain and the nervous system.
Nephrology – branch of medicine which deals with the kidneys.
Obstetrics – care of women during and after pregnancy
Oncology – branch of medicine that studies the types of cancer.
Ophthalmology – branch of medicine that deals with the eyes.
Optometry – branch of medicine that involves examining the eyes and applicable visual systems for defects or abnormalities as well as the medical diagnosis and management of eye disease.
Orthopaedics – branch of medicine that deals with conditions involving the musculoskeletal system.
Otorhinolaryngology – branch of medicine that deals with the ears, nose and throat.
Pathology – study of causes and pathogenesis of diseases.
Pediatrics – branch of medicine that deals with the general health and well-being of children and in some countries like the U.S. young adults.
Preventive medicine – measures taken for disease prevention, as opposed to disease treatment.
Psychiatry – branch of medicine that deals with the study, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of mental disorders.
Pulmonology – branch of medicine that deals with the respiratory system.
Radiology – branch of medicine that employs medical imaging to diagnose and treat disease.
Sports medicine – branch of medicine that deals with physical fitness and the treatment and prevention of injuries related to sports and exercise.
Rheumatology – branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of rheumatic diseases.
Surgery – branch of medicine that uses operative techniques to investigate or treat both disease and injury, or to help improve bodily function or appearance.
Urology – branch of medicine that deals with the urinary system of both sexes and the male reproductive system